### Personal Statement

The word "interdisciplinary" might be somewhat overused in the academy today, but neuroscience is a field where its original meaning still holds true. The field has flourished as investigators from disciplines as different as molecular biology, physics, and computer science, all attempt to answer the same fundamental questions with vastly their different approaches. Before deciding to pursue a PhD (and a career) in neuroscience, I spent time exploring a number of other academic disciplines, trying to figure out exactly what I wanted to do [do is a little vague]. While this has left me with less direct experience in neuroscience than I would have liked, it has also exposed me to a number of different ways of thinking, which I believe will help me as a researcher.

When I arrived at Princeton, I didn't know what I wanted to study. This wasn't due to a lack of interest in any one subject, but the opposite: I was seriously interested in math, computer science, and philosophy [did neuro interest you in any way? were there questions in phil that relate to the queestions in neuro you care about now? if you can find something there, it would be good as a unification. but this is good as-is]. For my first two years in college, I took classes in all three of these subjects, and satisfied the prerequisites for all three majors. This, however, came at a cost; going into my junior year, my grades weren't what I wanted them to be. Moreover, while I was enthusiastic about doing research, I still hadn't found a field that I wanted to focus in.

One of the main reasons why I ultimately chose to major in computer science was because of the opportunities the department offered for students to do independent research with faculty in related fields. In the spring of my junior year, I started doing independent research in computational neuroscience with Prof. Jonathan Pillow. This work continued for the rest of my time at Princeton, culminating in my undergraduate thesis [and a manuscript in progress!!! this is true, be your own biggest fan]. It would be hard to overstate the effect that this experience had on my academic direction. In computational neuroscience, I found a way to apply my knowledge of probability and computing to questions that I was genuinely curious about [yes!]. For the first time since coming to Princeton, I had hit my academic stride [nice!]. Before, I had been very self-conscious of the fact that, despite seeing myself as an intellectually curious person, my academic record did not reflect this. In neuroscience research, I found something I was able to really excel at precisely because it satisfied my intellectual curiosity [something along these lines is what i think you're getting at by expressing your sort of intellectual restlessness/misfitness (in a good way!)].

After graduating, I took a job as a software engineer at Bloomberg L.P. in New York, because I felt that the industry side of machine learning was worth exploring. Although I did learn a lot about how to build and maintain large software systems, I immediately missed neuroscience and research, so I set out to continue learning about the discipline on my own. Admittedly, working at a software company doesn't leave much room for intellectual exploration, so I had to get creative. For months, I would borrow my friend's ID to sneak into NYU's Bobst library, where I would go for hours after work to study. Although identity theft isn't something I condone, at the time I felt it was the only way to satisfy my desire to learn more about neuroscience. [my attempt to add some drama 2 this but lmk what you think] I started methodically, by getting a broad survey of the field through online courses and introductory textbooks, and then moved on to neural coding and memory, the subfields that I am most interested in. To study, I read papers on these subjects and coded up the models they described to get a better understanding of them [examples, if you have them]. One of the papers I especially liked was from Prof. Cristina Savin's lab at NYU [or maybe here say which specific paper/topic you liked, to add some 'grounding' to the narrative], so, this May, I reached out to Prof. Savin and was able to join her lab full-time as a research assistant.

Working in Prof. Savin's lab has solidified my desire to contribute to the field of neuroscience and it has showed me how my past experience in other disciplines can help me as a neuroscientist. My background in math, for example, is necessary for working with some of the models that we use to describe neural circuits. Knowledge of multiple programming languages and experience programming in an industrial setting helps me efficiently set up data analyses and numerical simulations. Even my study of philosophy has proved helpful -- in a young field like neuroscience, philosophical questions like what makes two theories equivalent and what constitutes a testable hypothesis are still being sorted out [yeeeees]. While I am pursuing my PhD, I hope to use my background in each of these fields to inform my research.
